# chimap file

### Syntax

```
num_mat nmat

PROPERTIES: chi type material prop1 prop2
...
```
one or more material nchi pairs:
- nmat = number of materials to be specified in the table bellow

followed by:
- PROPERTIES: = Keyword telling DETO to start reading the properties for your chimap 
-  must contain chi, material, and type in this order. followed by zero or more other per atom properties that can be set with the LAMMPS [set command](https://docs.lammps.org/set.html)

immediately followed by:
- 2 or more lines of space seperated values for the properties specified above.

### Examples

```
num_mat 12 

PROPERTIES: chi material type diameter
0.001		steel	1	1
0.2		steel	2	1
0.4		steel	3	1
0.6		steel	4	1
0.8		steel	5	1
1		steel	6	1
0.001		concrete	7	0.1
0.2		concrete	8	0.2
0.4		concrete	9	0.3
0.6		concrete	10	0.4
0.8		concrete	11	0.5
1		concrete	12  0.6
```

```
num_mat 1

PROPERTIES: chi material type
0		homo	1
1		homo	2
```

### Description
The chimap file is used to prescribe the mapping of chi values onto particle types, materials, and any other per particle propertiesyou wish to associate with the optimisation.

a chimap file is a necessary component of a DETO run and is called from the main input scriot via the [opt_map_chi](3.4_opt_map_chi.md) command.

the range of chi values given in the chi map will be the range available to the optimization. For calssical topology optimisation you will chose values between 0 and 1 but you may want chi to represent some physical quantity so it can be prescribed above one or even negative.  A chi value of zero is permisable, however this is not recomended if a sensitivity type optimisation is choosen due to it's negative effects on material migration.

the number of materials defined at the top of the file sets the avialable materials for the optimization. You must then specify that exact number of materials as strings below in the materials column.
