# add_attribute command
add an attribute to a previously specified simulation writen in LAMMPS syntax
### Syntax
```
add_attribute sim_ID command
```
- sim_ID = ID of the simulation to add the attribute to
- command = any syntactically correct command that can be run by LAMMPS.
 
### Examples
````
add_attribute Sim1	    fix	force force_group addforce 0 -1 0
add_attribute VertF     minimiz 1.0e-10 1.0e-10 1000 2000
add_attribute tourq     run 1000
add_attribute sim2      variable compliance equal -(y[138]+y[137]+y[259])
add_attribute Sim1 	    unfix force
````

### Description
add an attribute to a previously defined simulation. In DETO attributes are LAMMPS commands associated with a particular [simulation](3.3_simulation.md). These commands define the operations that take place during the simulation.

the add_attribute command takes as an argument the unique identifier of the simulation to add the attribute to followed by any string that is a syntactically correct [LAMMPS](https://docs.lammps.org/Manual.html#) command. 

You should think of these commands as defining the process you intend to optimize. The boundry conditions as well as either quasi-static or dynamic performance of the structure. Therefore it is necessary specify at least one _run_ or _minimize_ command as an attribute per simulation.

Since each simulation must track at least one [objective](3.9_add_objective.md) which must be a scalar value variable or compute it is often necessary to create attributes defining these values at the end of the simulation run.

!!! note

    you must avoid using "set type" commands here these commands as the optimization process uses types in a special way described in [chi_map](2.2_chimap)


### Requirements
Since each the attributes of each simulation are intended to be run repeatedly you must add an attribute to unfix all fix commands you have used at the end of any simulation.