# opt_type command
specify the style of optimisation to run as well as parameters associated with it
### Syntax
```
opt_type    style args
```
- style = _genetic_ or _monte-carlo_ or _pertibation_
	```
	genetic args = pop_size select crossover_rate mutation_rate keyword value
		selection_style = tour or roul
		keyword = eletism
			eletism value = fitest
	monte-carlo args = (not implemented yet)
	pertibation args = (not implemented yet)
    ```
 
### Examples
````
opt_type genetic 100 tour 0.95 0.01
opt_type monte-carlo
opt_type pertibation
````

### Description
Define the algorythm to be used for your optimization.  Defining how _chi_ will be updated from between steps as well as whether or not a population of chi is needed. The algorythms available can be split into stocastic and nonstochastic, the stocastic approaches take advantage of parralelisation by generate a _chi_ population (with stocastic variation) which can be evaluated in parrallel across multiple [subcommunicators](3.1_subcomm.md). nonstochastic algorythms use a single _chi_ vector updated with gradient based optimisation methods

Stocastic:
- genetic
- monte-carlo

Nonstocastic:
- pertibation

Genetic optimization uses a genetic algorythm for optimisation, the technique takes inspiration from the process of natural selection. It involves generating a population of _pop_size_ unique solutions. Selecting a subset of the best or the so called 'fittest' solutions, this can be done with either tournement or roulette selection. Combining elements from pairs of selected fitest results at a rate of _crossover_rate_. Finally some random mutation is applied to individual elements of the new solutions at a rate of _mutation_rate_ to make up the next generation of solutions.

Monte-Carlo is an algorythim planned to be added to DETO using a simulated annealing

Pertibation uses the method as developed in the supplementary material of [1](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11012-022-01493-w). In this method each element is pertibated by a small amount away from its current value and the solution is re-evaluated. The method of finite differences is used to approximate the gradient of the sensitivity here and element _chi_ values are updated accordingly

---
**[1]**  O’Shaughnessy, C., Masoero, E. & Gosling, P.D. Topology optimization using the discrete element method. Part 1: Methodology, validation, and geometric nonlinearity. _Meccanica_